TABLE 1. Standard ecological metadata descriptors and examples (based on Michener et al. 1987, 1990, Federal Geographic Data Committee 1994, Kirchner et al. 1995).Class I. Data set descriptorsA. Data set identity: Title or theme of data setB. Data set identification code: Database accession numbers or site-specific codes used to uniquely identify data setC. Data set description1. Originator(s) : Names and addresses of principal investigator(s) associated with data set2. Abstract: Descriptive abstract summarizing research objectives, data contents (including temporal, spatial, and thematic domain), context and potential uses of data setD. Key words: Location (spatial scale), time period and sampling frequency (temporal scale), theme or contents (thematic scale)Class II. Research origin descriptorsA. Overall project description: [Note: this section may be essential if data set represents a component of a larger or more comprehensive database; otherwise, relevant items may be incorporated into II.B.]1. Identity: Project title or theme2. Originator(s): Name(s) and address(es) of principal investigator(s) associated with project3. Period of study: Date commenced, date terminated, or expected duration4. Objectives: Scope and purpose of research program5. Abstract: Descriptive abstract summarizing broader scientific scope of overall research project6. Source(s) of funding: Grant and contract numbers, names and addresses of funding sourcesB. Specific subproject description1. Site descriptiona. Site type: Descriptive (e.g., short-grass prairie, blackwater stream, etc.)b. Geography: Location (e.g., latitude/longitude), sizec. Habitat: Detailed characteristics of habitats sampledd. Geology, landform: Soils, slope/elevation/aspect, terrain/physiography, geology/lithologye. Watersheds, hydrology: Size, boundaries, receiving streams, etc.f. Site history: Site management practices, disturbance history, etc.g. Climate: Descriptive summary of site climatic characteristics2. Experimental or sampling designa. Design characteristics: Description of statistical/sampling designb. Permanent plots: Dimension, location, general vegetation characteristics (if applicable).c. Data collection period, frequency, etc.: Information necessary to understand temporal sampling regime3. Research methodsa. Field/laboratory: Description or reference to standard field/laboratory methodsb. Instrumentation: Description and model/serial numbersc. Taxonomy and systematics: References for taxonomic keys, identification and location of voucher specimens, etc.d. Permit history: References to pertinent scientific and collecting permitse. Legal/organizational requirements: Relevant laws, decision criteria, compliance standards, etc.4. Project personnel: Principal and associated investigator(s), technicians, supervisors, studentsClass III. Data set status and accessibilityA. Status1. Latest update: Date of last modification of data set2. Latest archive date: Date of last data set archival3. Metadata status: Date of last metadata update and current status4. Data verification: Status of data quality assurance checkingB. Accessibility1. Storage location and medium: Pointers to where data reside (including redundant archival sites)2. Contact person(s) : Name, address, phone, fax, electronic mail3. Copyright restrictions: Whether copyright restrictions prohibit use of all or portions of the data set4. Proprietary restrictions: Any other restrictions that may prevent use of all or portions of data seta. Release date: Date when proprietary restrictions expireb. Citation: How data may be appropriately citedc. Disclaimer(s) : Any disclaimers that should be acknowledged by secondary users5. Costs: Costs associated with acquiring data (may vary by size of data request, desired medium, etc.)Class IV. Data structural descriptorsA. Data set file1. Identity: Unique file names or codes2. Size: Number of records, record length, total number of bytes, etc.3. Format and storage mode: File type (e.g., ASCII, binary, etc.), compression schemes employed (if any), etc.4. Header information: Description of any header data or information attached to file [Note: may include elements related to variable information (IV.B.); if so, could be linked to appropriate section(s)]5. Alphanumeric attributes: Mixed, upper, or lower case6. Special characters/fields: Methods used to denote comments, flag modified or questionable data, etc.7. Authentication procedures: Digital signature, checksum, actual subset(s) of data, and other techniques for assuring accurate transmission of data to secondary usersB. Variable information1. Variable identity: Unique variable name or code2. Variable definition: Precise definition of variables in data set3. Units of measurement: Units of measurement associated with each variable4. Data typea. Storage type: Integer, floating point, character, string, etc.b. List and definition of variable codes: Description of any codes associated with variablesc. Range for numeric values: Minimum, maximumd. Missing value codes: Description of how missing values are represented in data sete. Precision: Number of significant digits5. Data formata. Fixed, variable lengthb. Columns: Start column, end columnc. Optional number of decimal placesC. Data anomalies: Description of missing data, anomalous data, calibration errors, etc.Class V. Supplemental descriptorsA. Data acquisition1. Data forms or acquisition methods: Description or examples of data forms, automated data loggers, digitizing procedures, etc.2. Location of completed data forms3. Data entry verification procedures: Procedures employed to verify that digital data set is error freeB. Quality assurance/quality control procedures: Identification and treatment of outliers, description of quality assessments, calibration of reference standards, equipment performance results, etc.C. Related materials: References and locations of maps, photographs, videos, GIS data layers, physical specimens, field notebooks, comments, etc.D. Computer programs and data-processing algorithms: Description or listing of any algorithms used in deriving, processing, or transforming dataE. Archiving1. Archival procedures: Description of how data are archived for long-term storage and access2. Redundant archival sites: Locations and procedures followedF. Publications and results: Electronic reprints, lists of publications resulting from or related to the study, graphical/statistical data representations, etc.G. History of data set usage1. Data request history: Log of who requested data, for what purpose, and how data set was actually used 2. Data set update history: Description of any updates performed on data set3. Review history: Last entry, last researcher review, etc.4. Questions and comments from secondary users: Questionable or unusual data discovered by secondary users, limitations or problems encountered in specific applications of data, unresolved questions or commentsREFERENCESFederal Geographic Data Committee. 1994. Content standards for digital geospatial metadata (June 8). Federal Geographic Data Committee, Washington, D.C., USAKirchner, T., H. Chinn, D. Henshaw, and J. Porter. 1995. Documentation standards for data exchange. Pages 5Ð8 in R. Ingersoll and J. Brunt, editors. Proceedings of the 1994 LTER Data Management Workshop. Long-Term Ecological Research Network Office, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA.Michener, W. K., R. J. Feller, and D. G. Edwards. 1987. Development, management, and analysis of a long-term ecological research information base: example for marine macrobenthos. Pages 173Ð188 in T. P. Boyle, editor. New approaches to monitoring aquatic ecosystems. ASTM STP 940, American Society for Testing and Materials, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.Michener, W. K., A. B. Miller, and R. Nottrott. 1990. Longterm ecological research core data set catalog. Belle W. Baruch Institute for Marine Biology and Coastal Research, University of South Carolina, Columbia, South Carolina, USA.