NEH DMP: This plan is based on the "NEH-ODH: Office of Digital Humanities" template provided by National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) - (ver: 3, pub: 2018-11-27).


1. Roles and responsibilities

The DMP should clearly articulate how sharing of primary data is to be implemented.  It should outline the rights and obligations of all parties with respect to their roles and responsibilities in the management and retention of research data. It should also consider changes to roles and responsibilities that will occur if a project director or co-project director leaves the institution or project. Any costs stemming from the management of data should be explained in the budget notes.


2. Expected data

The DMP should describe the types of data, samples, physical collections, software, curriculum materials, or other materials to be produced in the course of the project. It should then describe the expected types of data to be retained.

Project directors should address matters such as these in the DMP:

2.1 the types of data that their project might generate and eventually share with others, and under what conditions;
2.2 how data will be managed and maintained until shared with others;
factors that might impinge on their ability to manage data, for example, legal and ethical restrictions on access to non-aggregated data;
2.3 the lowest level of aggregated data that project directors might share with others in the scholarly or scientific community, given that comunity's norms on data;
2.4 the mechanism for sharing data and/or making it accessible to others; and
2.5 other types of information that should be maintained and shared regarding data, for example, the way it was generated, analytical and procedural information, and the metadata.


3. Period of data retention

NEH is committed to timely and rapid data distribution. However, it recognizes that types of data can vary widely and that acceptable norms also vary by discipline. It is strongly committed, however, to the underlying principle of timely access. In their DMP applicants should address how timely access will be assured.


4. Data formats and dissemination

The DMP should describe data formats, media, and dissemination approaches that will be used to make data and metadata available to others. Policies for public access and sharing should be described, including provisions for appropriate protection of privacy, confidentiality, security, intellectual property, or other rights or requirements. Research centers and major partnerships with industry or other user communities must also address how data are to be shared and managed with partners, center members, and other major stakeholders.

5. Data storage and preservation of access

The DMP should describe physical and cyber resources and facilities that will be used to effectively preserve and store research data. These can include third-party facilities and repositories.
